Difficult conversations are just that, difficult.
Most people don't enjoy
telling a co-worker he needs to step up his work.
Or confronting a boss about her management style.
Whether we like it or not these conversations
can get messy and emotional.
They're also necessary.
Effective communication requires us
to address, and work through issues
openly and constructively.
That's why it's important to learn the four steps
for navigating difficult conversations.
Step one is all about preparation.
You don't want to head into a difficult conversation
without a solid plan.
Arm yourself with three things,
first prepare to describe the issue in one to two sentences,
stick to the facts, cut out your interpretation
or feelings about them.
Second identify your goals for the conversation.
What does resolution look like?
What is the ideal outcome?
Finally try role playing both the best
and the worst case reactions from the other party.
Preparation is key to keeping your conversation
constructive and on track.
Let's move onto the second step, framing.
The first thing you will say will impact
the meaning of everything that follows.
So frame the conversation strategically.
Start by reasserting your shared interests or goals.
You might say "I know how much
"we both want to sign this client,"
before transitioning into the difficult topic.
Recognize the strengths of the other party
before sharing weaknesses.
Express your appreciation for their work,
or acknowledge their context or the challenges they faced.
The third step is the actual discussion
where you delve into the difficult topic.
Try this strategy for
structuring your discussion effectively.
Start by stating the issue, again stick to the facts
and specific examples of the issue.
Avoid making accusations
or using emotionally charged language.
Then, share how the problematic behavior
had an impact on you.
Use I statements to express
your interpretation of the situation.
Finally invite the other party to share their perspective.
Ask questions to understand their side.
Continue the discussion from there
and work together to reach a common understanding,
agreement or action plan.
The final step is wrapping things up.
Summarize any outcomes, insights
or action items that came out of your discussion.
And don't forget to ask the other person
if they have anything else they want to discuss
before you end the conversation.
The number of difficult conversations you encounter
will likely increase as you gain more responsibility
and leadership roles in your career.
Don't avoid them.
Approach difficult conversations tactfully
and with a clear plan.
While having difficult conversations isn't fun,
when you confront issues head on
you're more likely to resolve them,
reach understandings and grow.